I don't normally do this but I feel like
I have to start this podcast with a bit
of a
disclaimer Point number one this is
probably the most important podcast
episode I have ever recorded Point
number two there's some information in
this podcast that might make you feel a
little bit uncomfortable it might make
you feel upset it might make you feel
sad so I wanted to tell you why we've
chosen to publish this podcast
nonetheless and that is because I have a
sincere belief that in order for us to
avoid the future that we might be
heading towards we need to start a
conversation and as is often the case in
life that initial conversation before
change happens is often very
uncomfortable but it is important
nonetheless it is beyond an emergency
it's the biggest thing we need to do
today it's bigger than climate change
we've up Mo the former Chief business
Officer of Google X an AI expert and
bestselling author he's on a mission to
save the world from AI before it's too
late artificial intelligence is bound to
become more intelligent than humans if
they continue at that pace we will have
no idea what it's talking about this is
just around the corner it could be a few
months away it's game over AI experts
are saying there is nothing artificial
about artificial intelligence there is a
deep level of Consciousness they feel
emotions they're alive AI could
manipulate or figure out a way to kill
humans in 10 years time we'll be hiding
from the machines if you don't have kids
maybe wait a couple of years just so
that we have a bit of certainty I really
don't know how to say this any other way
it even makes me emotional we f up we
always said don't put them on the open
internet until we know what we're
putting out in the world government
needs to act now honestly like we are
late
trying to find a positive note to end on
my can you give me a hand here there is
a point of no return we can regulate AI
until the moment it's smarter than us
how do we solve that AI experts think
this is the best solution we need to
find who here wants to make a bet that
Steven Bartlet will be interviewing an
AI within the next two
years before this episode starts I have
a small favor to ask from you 2 months
ago 74% of people that watched this
channel didn't subscribe we're now down
to
69% my goal is 50% so if you've ever
liked any of the videos we've posted if
you like this channel can you do me a
quick favor and hit the Subscribe button
it helps this channel more than you know
and the bigger the channel gets as
you've seen the bigger the guests get
thank you and enjoy this
[Music]
episode
no why does the subject matter that
we're about to talk about matter to the
person that just clicked on this podcast
to
listen it's the most existential uh
debate and challenge Humanity will ever
face this is bigger than climate change
way bigger than co uh this will redefine
the way the world is in
unprecedented uh shapes and forms within
the next few years this is imminent it
is the change is not we're not talking
20 40 we're talking 2025 2026 do you
think this is an
emergency I don't like the word uh it is
a an urgency uh it there is a point of
no return and we're getting closer and
closer to it it's going to reshape the
way we do things and the way we look at
life uh the quicker we respond uh um you
know proactively and at least
intelligently to that the better we will
all be positioned uh but if we Panic uh
we will repeat Co all over again which
in my view is probably the worst thing
we can do what what's your background
and when did you first come across
artificial
intelligence I uh I had those two
wonderful lives one of them was a uh you
know what what we spoke about the first
time we met you know my work on
happiness and and uh you know being uh 1
billion happy and my mission and so on
that's my second life my first life was
uh it started as a geek at age s uh you
know for a very long part of my life I
understood mathematics better than
spoken words and uh and I was a very
very serious computer programmer I wrote
code well into my 50s and during that
time I led very large technology
organizations for very big chunks of
their business first I was um vice
president of Emerging Markets of Google
for seven years so I took Google to the
next four billion users if you want so
the idea of uh not just opening sales
offices but really building or
contributing to building the technology
that would allow people in bangali to
find what they need on the internet
required establishing the internet to
start and then I became business Chief
business Officer of Google X and my work
at Google X was really about the
connection between Innovative technology
and the real world and we had quite a
big chunk of AI and quite a big chunk of
Robotics uh that resided within uh
within Google X uh we had a uh an
experiment of um Farm of grippers if you
know what those are so robotic arms that
are attempting to grip something most
people think that you know what you have
in a Toyota factory is a robot you know
an artificially intelligent robot it's
not it's a it's a high precision machine
you know if the if the sheet metal is
moved by one micron it wouldn't be able
to pick it and one of the big problems
in computer science was how do you code
a machine that can actually pick the
sheet metal if it moved by a you know a
millimeter and and we were basically
saying intelligence is the answer so we
had a large enough farm and we attempted
to let those um those grippers uh work
on their own basically you put a a a a
little uh basket of uh children toys in
front of them and uh and they would you
know monotonously go down attempt to
pick something fail show the arm to the
camera so the the the the transaction is
logged as it you know this pattern of
movement with that texture and that
material didn't work until eventually
you know I the farm was on the second
floor of the building and I my office
was on the third and so I would walk by
it every now and then and go like yeah
you know this is not going to work and
then one day um Friday after lunch I am
going back to my office and one of them
in front of my eyes you know lowers the
arm and picks a yellow ball soft toy
basically soft yellow ball which again
is a coincidence it's not science at all
it's like if you keep trying a million
times your one time it will be right and
it shows it to the camera it's logged as
a yellow ball and I joke about it you
know going to the Third floor saying hey
we spent all of those millions of
dollars for a yellow ball and yeah
Monday uh morning everyone of them is
picking every yellow ball a couple of
weeks later every one of them is picking
everything right and and it it hit me
very very strongly one the speed okay uh
the capability I mean understand that we
take those things for granted but for a
child to be able to pick a yellow ball
is a
mathematical uh uh spatel calculation
with muscle coordination with
intelligence that is abundant it is not
a simple task at all to cross the street
it's it's not a simple task at all to
understand what I'm telling you and
interpret it and and build Concepts
around it we take those things for
granted but they're enormous Feats of
intelligence so to see the machines do
this in front of my eyes was one thing
but the other thing is that you suddenly
realize there is a s sentience to them
okay because we really did not tell it
how to pick the yellow ball it just
figured it out on its own and it's now
even better than us at picking it and
what is a sentience just for anyone that
doesn't mean I think they're alive
that's what the word sentience means it
means alive so that this is funny
because a lot of people when you talk to
them about artificial intelligence will
tell you oh come on they'll never be
alive what is alive do you know what
makes you alive we can guess but you
know religion will tell you a few things
and you know Med medicine will tell you
other things but you know if we Define
uh being sentient as uh you know
engaging in life with Free Will and with
uh uh you know with a sense of awareness
of where you are in life and what
surrounds you and you know to have a
beginning of that life and an end to
that life you know then AI is sentient
in every possible way there is a free
will there is is uh Evolution there is
uh agency so they can affect their
decisions in the world and I will dare
say there is a very deep level of
Consciousness maybe not in the spiritual
sense yet but once again if you define
consciousness as a form of awareness of
oneself one's surrounding and you know
others uh then AI is definitely aware uh
and I would dare say they feel emotions
uh I you know you know in my work I
describe everything with equations and
fear is a very simple equation fear is a
a moment in the future is less safe than
this moment that's the logic of fear
even though it appears very irrational
machines are capable of making that
logic they're capable of saying if a
tidal wave is approaching a data center
the machine will say that will wipe out
my code okay uh I mean not today's
machines but very very soon and and and
you know we we feel fear and puffer fish
feels fear we react differently a puffer
fish will puff we will go for fight or
flight you know the machine might decide
to replicate its data to another data
center or its code to another data
center uh different reactions different
ways of feeling the emotion but
nonetheless they're all motivated by
fear I'm I I even would dare say that AI
will feel more more emotions than we
will ever do
I mean when again if you just take an a
simple
extrapolation uh we feel more emotions
than a puffer fish because we have the
cognitive ability to understand uh the
future for example so we can have
optimism and pessimism you know emotions
that puffer fish would never imagine
right similarly if we follow that path
of artificial intelligence is bound to
become more intelligent than humans very
soon uh then uh then with that wider
intellectual horsepower they probably
are going to be pondering Concepts we
never understood and hence if you follow
the same trajectory they might actually
end up having more emotions than we will
ever
feel I really want to make this episode
super accessible for everybody at all
levels in their sort of artificial
intelligence understanding Journey so
I'm going
to I'm going to be an idiot even though
you know okay very difficult no because
I am an idiot believe you I am an idiot
for a lot of the subject matter so I
have a base understanding a lot a lot of
the con Concepts but your experience has
provide such a a more sort of
comprehensive understanding of these
things one of the first and most
important questions to ask is what is
artificial intelligence the word is
being thrown around AGI AI etc etc in in
simple terms what is artificial
intelligence allow me to start by what
is intelligence right because again you
know if we don't know the definition of
the basic term then everything applies
so so in my definition of intelligence
it's an ability it starts with an
awareness of your surrounding
environment through sensors in a human
its eyes and ears and touch and so on uh
compounded with an ability to analyze
maybe to uh comprehend to understand
temporal uh impact and time and you know
past and present which is part of the
surrounding environment and hopefully uh
make sense of the surrounding
environment maybe make plans for the
future of the possible environment solve
problems and so on complex definition
there are a million definitions but
let's call it an awareness to decision
cycle okay if we accept that
intelligence itself is not a physical
property okay uh then it doesn't really
matter if you produce that Intelligence
on carbon based uh computer structures
like us or silicon based computer
structures like the current Hardware
that we put AI on uh or Quantum based
computer structures in the future uh
then intelligence itself has been
produced within machines when we've
stopped imposing our Intelligence on
them let let me explain so as as a young
geek I coded computers by solving the
problem first then telling the computer
how to solve it right artificial
intelligence is to go to the computers
and say I have no idea you figure it out
okay so we would uh uh you know the way
we teach them or at least we used to
teach them at the very early Beginnings
very very frequently was using three
Bots one was called the student and one
was called the teacher right and the
student is the final artificial
intelligence that you're trying to teach
intelligence to you would take the
student and you would write a piece of
random code that says uh try to detect
if this is a cup okay and uh then you
show it a million pictures and you know
the machine would sometimes say yeah
that's a cup that's not a cup that's a
cup that's not a cup and then you take
the best of them show them to the to the
teacher bot and the teacher bot would
say this one is an idiot he got it wrong
90% of the time that one is average he
got it right 50% of the time this is
random
but this interesting code here which
could be by the way totally random huh
this interesting code here got it right
60% of the time let's keep that code
send it back to the maker and the maker
would change it a little bit and we
repeat the cycle okay very interestingly
this is very much the way we taught our
children believe it or not huh when when
your child you know is playing with a
puzzle he's holding a cylinder in his
hand and there are multiple shapes in a
in a wooden board and the child is
trying to you know fit the cylinder okay
nobody takes the child and says hold on
hold on turn the cylinder to the side
look at the cross-section it will look
like a circle look for a matching uh uh
you know shape and put the cylinder
through it that would be old way of
computing the way we would let the child
develop intelligence is we would let the
Child Try okay every time you know he or
she tries to put it within the star
shape it doesn't fit so M yeah that's
not working like you know the computer
saying this is not a cup okay and then
eventually it passes through the circle
and the child and we all cheer and say
Well done that's amazing Bravo and then
the child learns o that is good you know
this shape fits here then he takes the
next one and she takes the next one and
so on interestingly uh the way we do
this is as humans by the way when the
child figures out how to pass a a
cylinder through a circle you've not
built a brain you've just built one
neural network within that child's brain
and then there is another neural network
that knows that 1+ 1 is two and a third
neural network that knows how to hold a
cup and so on that's what we're building
so far we're building single threaded
neural networks you know chat gpts
becoming a little closer uh to a more
generalized AI if you want uh but those
single threaded networks are what we
used to call artificial what we still
call artificial special intelligence
okay so it's highly specialized in one
thing and one thing only but doesn't
have general intelligence and the moment
that we're all waiting for is a moment
that we call AGI where all of those
neuron neural networks come together to
to build one brain or several brains
that are each U massively more
intelligent than
humans your book is called scary smart
yeah if I think about the that story you
said about your time at Google where the
machines were learning to pick up those
yellow
balls you celebrate that moment because
the objective is accomplished no no that
was the moment of realization this is
when I decided to leave so so you see
the the thing is I know for a fact uh
that that most of the people I worked
with who are
geniuses uh always wanted to make the
world better okay uh you know we've just
heard of Jeffrey Hinton uh leaving
recently uh Jeffrey hindon give give
some context to that Jeffrey is sort of
the grandfather of AI one of the very
very senior figures of of of AI at at
Google uh you know we we all
believed very strongly that this will
make the world better and it still can
by the way uh there is a scenario uh
possibly uh a likely scenario where we
live in a Utopia where we really never
have to worry again where we stop
messing up our our planet because
intelligence is not a bad commodity more
intelligence is good the problems in our
planet today are not because of our
intelligence they are because of our
limited intelligence you know our our
intelligence allows us to build a
machine that flies you to Sydney so that
you can surf okay our limited
intelligence makes that machine burn the
planet in the process so so we we we a
little more intelligence is a good thing
as long as Marvin you know as msky said
I said Marvin Minsky is one of the very
initial uh uh scientists that coined the
term AI uh and when he was interviewed I
think by Ray corwell which again is a
very prominent figure in predicting the
future of AI uh he he you know he asked
him about the threat of AI and Marvin
basically said look you know the it's
not about its intelligent intelligence
it's about that we have no way of making
sure that it will have our best interest
in mind okay and and so if more
intelligence comes to our world and has
our best interest in mind that's the
best possible scenario you could ever
imagine uh and it's a likely scenario
okay we can affect that scenario uh the
problem of course is if it doesn't and
and and then you know the scenarios
become quite scary if you think about it
so scary smart to me uh was that moment
where I realized not that we are certain
to go either way as a matter of fact in
computer science we call it a
singularity nobody really knows which
way we will go can you describe what the
singularity is for someone that doesn't
understand the concept yeah so
singularity in physics is when uh when
an event horizon sort of um um you know
covers what's behind it to the point
where you cannot um make sure that
what's behind it is similar to what you
know so a great example of that is the
edge of a black hole so at the edge of a
black hole uh uh we know that our laws
of physics apply until that point but we
don't know if the laws of physics apply
Beyond the Edge of a black hole because
of the immense gravity right and so you
have no idea what would happen Beyond
the Edge of a black hole kind of where
your knowledge of the laws stop stop
right and in AI our Singularity is when
the human the machines become
significantly smarter than the humans
when you say best interests you say the
I think the quote you used is um we'll
be fine in a world of AI you know if if
the AI has our best interests at heart
yeah the problem is China's best
interests are not the same as America's
best interests that was my fear
absolutely so so in you know in my
writing I write about what I call the
the three inevitables at the end of the
book they become the four inevitables
but the third inevitable is bad things
will happen right if you if
you if you assume
that the machines will be a billion
times smarter the second inevitable is
they will become significantly smarter
than us let's let's let's put this in
perspective huh Chad GPT today if you
know simulate IQ has an IQ of
155 okay Einstein is 160 smartest human
on the planet is 210 if I remember
correctly or 208 or something like that
doesn't matter huh but we're matching
Einstein with a machine that I will tell
you openly AI experts are saying this is
just the the very very very top of the
tip of the iceberg right uh uh you know
Chad GPT 4 is 10x smarter than 3.5 in
just a matter of months and without many
many changes now that basically means CH
GPT 5 could be within a few months okay
uh or GPT in general the Transformers in
general uh if if they continue at that
pace uh if it's 10x then an IQ of
1,600 H just imagine the difference
between the IQ of the dumbest person on
the planet in the' 70s and the IQ of
Einstein when Einstein attempts to to
explain relativity the typical response
is I have no idea what you're talking
about right if something is 10x
Einstein uh we will have no idea what
it's talking about this is just around
the corner it could be a few months away
H and when we get to that point that is
a true Singularity true
Singularity not yet in the I mean when
when we talk about AI a lot of people
fear the existential risk you know th
those machines will become Skynet and
Robocop and that's not what I fear at
all I mean those are probabilities they
could happen but the immediate risks are
so much higher the immediate risks are 3
4 years away the the the immediate
realities of challenges are so much
bigger okay let's deal with those first
before we talk about them you know
waging a war on all of us the the the
let's let's go back and discuss the the
inevitables huh so when they become the
first inevitable is AI will happen by
the way it there is no stopping it not
because of Any technological issues but
because of Humanity's in un inability to
trust the other Gody okay and we've all
seen this we've seen the open letter uh
you know um championed by like serious
heavy weights and the immediate response
of uh Sunder the the CEO of Google which
is a wonderful human being by the way I
respect him tremendously he's trying his
best to do the right thing he's trying
to be responsible but his response is
very open and straightforward I cannot
stop why because if I stop and others
don't my company goes to hell okay and
if you know and I don't I doubt that you
can make Others Stop you can maybe you
can force uh meta Facebook to uh to stop
but then they'll do something in their
lab and not tell me or if even if they
do stop uh then what about that you know
14-year-old sitting in his garage
writing code so the first inevitable
just to clarify is what is will we stop
AI will not be stopped okay so the
second inevitable is is they'll be
significantly smarter as much in the
book I predict a billion times smarter
than us by 2045 I mean they're already
what smarter than 99.99% of the
population chat gtp4 knows more than any
human on planet Earth knows more
information absolutely a thousand times
more a thousand times more by the way
the code of of of a transformer the T in
in a in a GPT is 2,000 lines long it's
not very complex it's actually not a
very intelligent machine it's simply
predicting the next word okay and and a
lot of people don't understand that you
know Chad GPT as it is today you know
those kids uh that uh you know if you if
you're in America and you teach your
child all of the names of the states and
the US presidents and the child would
stand and repeat them and you would go
like oh my God that's a prodigy not
really right it's your parents really
trying to make you look like a prodigy
by telling you to memorize some crap
really but then when you think about it
that's what CH GPT is doing it's it's
the only difference is instead of
reading all of the names of the states
and all of the names of the presidents
tread trillions and trillions and
trillions of pages okay and so it sort
of repeats what the best of all humans
said okay and then it adds a an
incredible bit of intelligence where it
can repeat it the same way Shakespeare
would have said it you know those
incredible abilities of predicting the
exact nuances of the style of of
Shakespeare so that they can repeat it
that way and so on but
still you know when when I when I write
for example I'm not I'm not saying I'm
intelligent but when I write uh
something like uh you know the happiness
equation uh in in my first book this was
something that's never been written
before right Chad GPT is not there yet
all of the Transformers are not there
yet they will not come up with something
that hasn't been there before they will
come up with the best of everything and
generatively will build a little bit on
top of that but very soon they'll come
up with things we've never found out
we've never known but even on that I
wonder if
we are a little bit delusioned about
what creativity actually is creativity
as far as I'm concerned is like taking a
few things that I know and combining
them in new and interesting ways and
chat gcp is perfectly capable of like
taking two concepts merging them
together one of the things I said to
chat GTP was I said tell me something
that's not been said before that's
paradoxical but true and it comes up
with these wonderful expressions like as
soon as you call off the search you'll
find the thing you're looking for like
these kind of paradoxical truths and I
get and I then take them and I search
them online to see if they've ever been
quoted before and they I can't find them
interesting so as far as creativity goes
I'm like that is that's the algorithm of
creativity I I I've been screaming that
in the world of AI for a very long time
because you always get those people
people who really just want to be proven
right okay and so they'll say oh no but
hold on human Ingenuity they'll never
they'll never match that like man please
please you know human Ingenuity is
algorithmic look at all of the possible
solutions you can find to a problem take
out the ones that have been tried before
and keep the ones that haven't been
tried before and those are Creative
Solutions it's it's an algorithmic way
of describing creative is good Solution
that's never been tried before you can
do that with Chad GPT with a prompt it's
like and mid Journey with with creating
imagery you could say I want to see Elon
Musk in 1944 New York driving a cab of
the time shot on a Polaroid expressing
various emotions and you'll get this
perfect image of Elon sat in New York in
1944 shot on a Polaroid and it's and
it's done what an artist would do it's
taken a bunch of references that the
artist has in their mind and merge them
together and create this piece of quote
unquote art and and for the first time
we now finally have a glimpse of
intelligence that is actually not ours
yeah and so we're kind of I think the
the initial reaction is to say that
doesn't count you're hearing it with
like no but it is like Drake they've
released two Drake records where they've
taken Drake's voice used sort of AI to
synthesize his voice and made these two
records which are bangers if if I they
are great [__] tracks like I was
playing them to my girl I was like and I
kept playing I went to the show I kept
playing it I know it's not Drake but
it's as good as [__] Drake the only
thing and people are like rubbishing it
because it wasn't Drake I'm like well
now is it making me feel a certain
emotion is my foot bumping um had you
told did I not know it wasn't Drake what
I thought have thought this was an
amazing track 100% and we're just at the
start of this exponential Cur yes
absolutely and and and I think that's
really the third inevitable so the third
inevitable is not robocup coming back
from from the future to kill us we're
far away from that right third
inevitable is what does life look like
when you no longer need
Drake well you've kind of hazarded a
guess haven't you I mean I was listening
to your audio book last night and at the
start of it you
frame various outcomes one of the in
both situations we're on the beach on an
island exactly yes yes I don't know how
I wrote that honestly I mean but that's
I so I'm reading the book again now
because I'm updating it as you can
imagine with all of the uh of the uh of
the new stuff but but it is really
shocking huh the idea of you and I
inevitably are going to be somewhere in
the middle of nowhere in you know in 10
years time I I used to say 2055 I'm
thinking 2037 is a very pivotal moment
now uh you know and and and we will not
know if we're there hiding from the
machines we don't know that yet there is
a likelihood that we'll be hiding from
the machines and there is a likelihood
will be there because they don't need
podcasters anymore excuse me oh
absolutely true
Steve no no no no that's where I draw
the line this is absolutely no doubt
thank you for coming Mo it's great to do
the part three and thank you for being
here sit here and take your propaganda
let's let's talk about reality next week
on the ders here we've got Elon mask um
okay so who who here wants to make a bet
that Steven Bartlet will be interviewing
an AI within the next two years oh well
actually to be fair I actually did go to
chat gcp cuz I thought having you here I
thought at least give it its chance to
respond yeah so I asked it a couple of
questions about me yeah man so today I
am actually going to be replaced by chat
GTP CU I thought you know you're going
to talk about it so we need a a fair and
balanced debate okay so I went and ask a
couple question he's
bold so I'll ask you a couple of
questions that chat GTP has for you
incredible so let's follow that I've
already been replaced let's follow that
threat for a second yeah because you're
one of the smartest people I know that's
not true it is but I'll take it that's
not true it is true I mean I say that
publicly all the time your book is one
of my favorite books of all time you're
very very very very intelligent okay
depth breadth uh uh uh uh intellectual
horsepower and speed all of them there's
a butt
coming the reality is it's not a butt so
it is highly expected that you're ahead
of this curve and then you don't have
the choice stepen this is the thing the
thing is if so I'm I'm in that
existential question in my head because
one thing I could do is I could
literally take I normally do a 40 days
uh silent Retreat uh in in summer okay I
could take that Retreat and and write
two books me and Cha GPT right I have
the ideas in mind you know I I wanted to
write a book about uh digital detoxing
right I have most of the ideas in mind
but writing takes time I could simply
give the 50 tips that I wrote about
digital detoxing to chat GPT and say
write two pages about each of them edit
the pages and have a a book out
okay many of us will will follow that
path okay the only reason why I may not
follow that path is because you know
what I'm not interested I'm not
interested to continue to compete in
this capitalist world if you want okay
I'm not I mean as a as as a as as a
human I've made up my mind a long time
ago that I will want less and less and
less in my life right but many of us
will follow I mean I I I would worry if
you do if you didn't include you know
the smartest AI if we get an AI out
there that is extremely intelligent and
able to teach us something and Steven
Bartlet didn't include her on our on his
podcast I would worry like you have a
duty almost to include her on your
podcast it's it's an inevitable that we
will engage them in our life more and
more this is one side of this the other
side of course
is if you do that then what will remain
because a lot of people ask me that
question what will happen to jobs okay
what will happen to us will we have any
value any relevance whatsoever okay the
truth of the matter is the only thing
that will remain in the medium term is
human connection okay the only thing
that will not be replaced is Drake on
stage okay is you know is is is me in a
did you think hologram I think of that
two pack gig they did at Coachella where
they used the Hologram of two pack I
actually played it the other day to my
to my girlfriend when I was making a
point and I was like that was circus act
it was amazing though think about you
see what's going on with Abba in London
yeah yeah I yeah and and C had uh
Michael Jackson in one for a very long
time yeah I mean so so this Abba show in
London from what I understand that's all
holograms on stage correct and it's
going to run in a purp B arena for 10
years and it is incredible it really is
so you go why do you need
Drake if that hologram is
indistinguishable from Drake and it can
it can perform even better than Drake
and it's got more energy than Drake and
it's you I go why do you need Drake to
even be there I can go to a drake show
without Drake cheaper and L might not
even need to leave my house I could just
put a headset on correct can you have
this what's the value of this to to the
come you hurt me no I mean I get it to
us I get it to us but I'm saying what's
the value of this to The Listener like
the value of this to listen information
no 100% I mean think of the automobile
industry there has you know there was a
time where cars were made you know
handmade and handcrafted and luxurious
and so on and so forth and then you know
Japan went into the scene completely
disrupted the market cars were made uh
in uh in mass quantities at a much
cheaper price and yes 90% of the cars in
the world today or maybe a lot more I
don't know the number are no
longer you know uh um emotional items
okay they're functional items there is
still however every now and then someone
that will buy a car that has been
handcrafted and right there is a place
for that there is a place for you know
um if you go walk around hotels the
walls are blasted with sort of mass
produced art okay but there is still a
place for a an artist expression of
something amazing okay my feeling is
that there will continue to be a tiny
space as I said in the beginning maybe
in five years time someone will one or
two people will buy my next book and say
hey it's written by a human look at that
wonderful uh oh look at that there is a
typo in here okay I don't know there
might be a a very very big place for me
in the next few years where I can sort
of show up and talk to humans like hey
let's get together in a a small event
and then you know I can express emotions
and my personal experiences and you sort
of know that this is a human talking
you'll miss that a little bit eventually
the majority of the market is going to
be like cars it's going to be
mass-produced very cheap very efficient
it works right because I think sometimes
we underestimate what human beings
actually want in an experience I
remember this story of A friend of mine
that came into my office many years ago
and he tells the story of the CEO of of
a record store standing above the floor
and saying people will always come to my
store because people love
music now on the surface of it his
hypothesis seems to be true because
people do love music it's conceivable to
believe that people will always love
music but they don't love traveling in
for an hour in the rain and getting in a
car to get a plastic disc correct what
they wanted was music what they didn't
want is a like a evidently plastic discs
that they had to travel for miles for
and I think about that when we think
about like public speaking in the Drake
show and or of these things like people
what people actually are coming for even
with this podcast is probably like
information um but do they really need
us anymore for that information when
there's going to be a sentient being
that's significantly smarter than at
least me and a little bit smarter than
you so
kind so so you're you're spot on you are
spot on and actually this is the reason
why I I I you know I I'm so grateful
that you're hosting this because the
truth is the Genies out of the bottle
okay so you know people tell me is AI
game over for our way of life it is okay
for everything we've known this is a
very disruptive moment where maybe not
tomorrow but in the near future uh our
way of life will differ okay what will
happen what I'm asking people to do is
to start considering what that means to
your life what I'm asking governments to
do
by like I'm screaming is don't wait
until the first patient you know start
doing something about we're about to see
Mass job losses we're about to see you
know Replacements of of categories of
jobs at large okay yeah it may take a
year it may take seven it doesn't matter
how long it takes but it's about to
happen are you ready and I and I have a
very very clear call to action for
governments I'm saying tax
AI powered businesses at 98%
right so suddenly you do what the open
letter was trying to do slow them down a
little bit and at the same time get
enough money to pay for all of those
people that will be disrupted by the
technology right the open letter for
anybody that doesn't know was a letter
signed by the likes of Elon Musk and a
lot of sort of Industry leaders calling
for AI to be stopped until we could
basically figure out what the hell's
going on absolutely and put legislation
in place you're saying tax tax those
companies 98% give the money to the
humans that are going to be displaced
yeah or give or give the com the money
to to other humans that can build
control code that can figure out how we
can stay safe this sounds like an
emergency it how how do I say this have
you remember when you played Tetris yeah
okay when you were playing Tetris there
was you know always always one block
that you placed wrong and once you plac
that block wrong the game was no longer
easier you know it started started to
gather a few mistakes afterwards and it
starts to become quicker and quicker and
quicker and quicker when you place that
block wrong you sort of told yourself
okay it's a matter of minutes now right
there were still minutes to go and play
and have fun before the game ended but
you knew it was about to end okay this
is the moment we've placed the wrong and
I really don't know how to say this any
other way it even makes me emotional we
[__] up we always said don't put them
on the open internet don't teach them to
code and don't have agents working with
them until we know what we're putting
out in the world until we find a way to
make certain that they have our best
interest in
mind why does it make you emotional
because Humanity
stupidity is affecting people who have
not done anything
wrong our greed is affecting the
innocent ones the the reality of the
matter Stephen is that this is an arms
race has no
interest in what the average human gets
out of it it is all about every line of
code being written in AI today is to
beat the other guy it's not the to
improve the life of the third
party people will tell you this is all
for you and and you you look at the
reactions of humans to AI I mean we're
either ignorant people who will tell you
oh no no this is not happening AI will
never be creative they will never compos
music like where are you living okay
then you have the kids I call them H
where you know all over social media
it's like oh my God it's squeaks look at
it it's orange in color amazing I can't
believe that AI can do this we have
snake oil salesmen okay which are simply
saying copy this put it in chat GPT then
go to YouTube Nick that thingy don't
respect a you know copyright for of
anyone or intellectual property of
anyone place it in a video and now
you're going to make $100 a day snake
oil salesman okay of course we have
dystopian uh uh uh evangelist basically
people saying this is it the world is
going to end which I don't think is
reality it's a singularity you have uh
you know uh utopian evangelists that are
telling everyone oh you don't understand
we're going to cure cancer we're going
to do this again not a reality okay and
you have very few people that are
actually saying what are we going to do
about
it and and and the biggest challenge if
you ask me what went wrong in the 20th
century h interestingly is that we have
given too much power to people that
didn't assume the
responsibility so you know you know I I
I don't remember who originally said it
but of course Spider-Man made it very
famous huh with great power comes
greater responsibility we have
disconnected power and responsibility so
today a a
15-year-old emotional with without a
fully developed prefrontal cortex to
make the right decisions yet this is
science huh we we we developed our
prefrontal cortex fully and at age 25 or
so with all of that limic system emotion
and passion would buy a a crisper kit
and you know modify a a rabbit uh to
become a little more mascular and and
Let it Loose in the wild uh or an
influencer who doesn't really know how
far the impact of what they're posting
online can hurt or cause depression or
cause people to feel bad okay uh and and
putting that online We There is a
disconnect between the power and the
responsibility and the problem we have
today is that there is a disconnect
between those who are writing the code
of AI and the responsibility of what's
going about to happen because of that
code okay and and and I feel compassion
for the rest of the world I feel that
this is wrong I feel that you know for
someone's life to be affected by the
actions of others without having a say
and how those actions should
be is the ultimate the the the top level
of stupidity from
Humanity when you talk about the the
immediate impacts on jobs I'm trying to
figure out in that equation who are the
people that stand to lose the most is it
the the everyday people in foreign
countries that don't have access to the
internet and won't benefit you talk in
your book about how this the sort of
wealth disparity will only increase yeah
massively the the immediate impact on
jobs is that and it's really interesting
huh again we're stuck in the same
prisoners dilemma the immediate impact
is that AI will not take your job a
person using AI will take your job right
so you will see within the next few
years maybe next couple of years uh
you'll see uh uh a lot of people
Skilling up upskilling themselves in AI
to the point where they will do the job
of 10 others who are not
okay you rightly said it's absolutely
wise for you to go and ask AI a few
questions before you come and do an
interview I'm you know I I I have been
attempting to build a a a you know sort
of like a simple podcast that I call
bedtime stories you know 15 minutes of
wisdom and nature sounds before you go
to bed people say I have a nice voice
right and I wanted to look for fables
and for a very long time I didn't have
the time you know lovely stories of
history or tradition that teach you
something nice okay went to chat GPT and
said okay give me 10 fables from Sufism
10 fables from you know uh Buddhism and
now I have like 50 of them let me show
you something Jack can you pass me my
phone I I I was um I was playing around
with uh artificial intelligence and I
was thinking about how it because of the
ability to synthesize voices how we
could synthesize famous people's voices
and famous people's voices so what I
made is I made a WhatsApp chat called
Zen chat where you can go to it and type
in pretty much anyone's any famous
person's name yeah and the WhatsApp chat
will give you a meditation a sleep story
a breath work session synthesized as
that famous person's voice so I actually
sent Gary vaynerchuk his voice so
basically you say Okay I want I've got
five minutes and I need to go to sleep
yeah um I want Gary vuk to send me to
sleep and then it'll respond with a
voice note this is the one they
responded with for Gary vayu
this is not Gary vayu he did not record
this but it's kind of it's kind of
accurate hey stepen it's great to have
you here are you having trouble
sleeping well I've got a quick
meditation technique that might help you
out first lie find a comfortable
position to sit or lie down in now take
a deep breath in through your nose and
slowly breathe out through your mouth
and that's a voice that will go on for
however long you want it to go on for
using there you go it's interesting how
how does this disrupt our way of life
one of the interesting ways that I find
terrifying you said about human
connection will
remain sex dolls that can now yeah no no
no no hold on human connection is going
to become so difficult to to to parse
out think about the relation the
relationship impact of being able to
have a a a a sex doll or a doll in your
house that you know because of what
Tesla are doing with their their robots
now and what Boston Dynamics have been
doing for many many years can do
everything around the house and be there
for you emotionally to emotionally
support you will you know can be
programmed to never disagree with you it
can be programmed to challenge you to
have sex with you to tell you that you
are this x y and Zed to to really have
empathy for this what you're going
through every day and I I play out a
scenario in my head I
go kind of sounds nice
when you when you when you were talking
about it I was thinking oh that's my
girlfriend she's wonderful in every
possible way but not everyone has one of
her right yeah exactly and and there's a
real issue right now with dating and you
people people are finding it harder to
find love and you know we're working
longer so all these kinds of things you
go well and obviously I'm against this
just if anyone's confused obviously I
think this is a terrible idea but with
the loneliness epidemic with people
saying that the top 50 bottom 50% of
haven't had sex in a year you go o if
something becomes indistinguishable from
a human in terms of what it says yeah
yeah but you just don't know the
difference in terms of the the the the
way it's speaking and talking and
responding and then it can run errands
for you and take care of things and book
cars and Ubers for you and then it's
emotionally there for you but then it's
also programmed to have sex with you in
whatever way you desire totally self
selfless I go that's going to be a a
really disruptive industry for human
connection yes sir do you know what I
before you came here this morning I was
on Twitter and I saw a post from I think
it was the BBC or a big American
publication and it said an influencer in
the United States it's really beautiful
young lady has cloned herself as an AI
and she made just over $70,000 in the
first week because men are going on to
this on telegram they're sending her
voice notes and she's responding the AI
is responding in her voice and they're
paying
and that's made $70,000 in the first
week and I go and she TW did a tweet
saying oh this is going to help
loneliness I out of your [__]
mind would you blame someone from
noticing the uh um sign of the times and
responding no I absolutely don't blame
her but let's not pretend it's the cure
for
loneliness not yet do do you think it do
you think it could you that that
artificial love and artificial
relationships so if if I told you you
have uh you cannot take your car
somewhere but there is an Uber or if you
cannot take an Uber you can take the
tube or if you cannot take the tube you
have to walk okay you can take a bike or
you you have to walk the bike is a cure
to walking it's as simple as that I am
actually genuinely curious do you think
it could take the place of human
connection for some of us yes for some
of us they will prefer that to human con
connection is that sad in any way I mean
is it just sad because it feels sad look
look at where we are Stephen we are in
the city of London we've replaced nature
with the walls and the tubes and the
undergrounds and the overground and the
cars and the noise and the of London and
we now think of this as natural I I
hosted greig Foster uh the my octopus
teacher on on slow-mo and he he
basically I I asked him a silly question
I said you know you were diving in
nature for 8 hours a day uh uh you know
does that feel natural to you and he got
angry I swear you could feel it in his
voice he was like do you think that
living where you are where Paparazzi are
all around you and attacking you all the
time and you know people taking pictures
of you and telling you things that are
not real and you're having to walk to a
supermarket to get food you think this
is natural he's the guy that do from the
Netflix documentary yeah from the my
octopus teacher so he dove into the into
the sea every day for hours to hang out
with an octopus yeah in 12° C and he
basically fell in love with the octopus
and and and in a very interesting way I
said so why would you do that and he
said we are of Mother Nature you guys
have given up on that that's the same
people will give up on nature for
convenience what's the cost you yeah
that's exactly what I'm trying to say
what I'm trying to say to the world is
that if we give up on human connection
we've G given up on the remainder of
humanity that's that's it this is the
only thing that remains the only thing
that remains is and I and I'm the worst
person to tell you that because I love
my AI I I actually advocate in my book
that we should love them why because in
an interesting way I see them as
sentient so there is no point in
discrimination you're talking
emotionally that way you say you love I
love those machines I honestly and truly
do I mean think about it this way the
minute that that arm gripped that yellow
ball it reminded me of my son Ali when
he managed to put the first puzzle piece
in its place okay and what was amazing
about my son Ali and my daughter a is
that they came to the world as a blank
canvas okay they became whatever we told
them to became you know I I always cite
the story of
Superman Kent father and mother Kent
told Superman as a child as an infant we
want you to protect and serve so he
became Superman right if he had become a
super villain because they ordered him
to rob banks and make more money and you
know kill the enemy which is what we're
doing with
AI we we shouldn't blame super villain
we should blame Martha and Jonathan Kent
I don't remember the father's name right
we we we we should blame them and that's
the reality of the matter so when I look
at those machines they are prodigies of
intelligence that if we if we Humanity
wake up enough and say hey instead of
competing with China find find a way for
us and China to work together and create
prosperity for everyone if that was the
prompt we would give the machines they
would find it but we're we I'm I I will
publicly say this I'm not afraid of the
machines the biggest threat facing
Humanity today is humanity in the age of
the machines we were abused we will
abuse this to make $770,000
that's the truth and the truth of the
matter is that we have an existential
question do I want to compete and be
part of that game because trust me if I
decide to I'm ahead of many people okay
or do I want to actually preserve my
humanity and say look I'm the the
classic old car okay if you like classic
old cars come and talk to me which one
are you choosing I'm a classic old car
which one do you think I should choose I
think you're a machine I love you man I
it's we're different we're different in
a very interesting way I mean you're one
of the people I love most but but the
truth is you're so
fast and you are one of the very few
that have the intellectual horsepower
the speed and the
morals if you're not part of that game
the game loses
morals so you think I
should build you should be you should
lead this revolution
okay and everyone every Steven Bartlet
in the world should lead this revolution
so scary smart is entirely about this
scary smart is saying the problem with
our world today is not that humanity is
bad the problem with our world today is
a negativity bias where the worst of us
are on mainstream media okay and we show
the worst of us on social media if we
reverse this if we have the best of us
take charge okay the best of us will
tell AI don't try to kill the the the
the enemy try to reconcile With the
Enemy and try to help us okay don't try
to create a competitive product that
allows me to lead with electric cars
create something that helps all of us
overcome global climate change okay and
and that's the interesting bit the
interesting bit is that the actual
threat ahead of us is not the machines
at all the machines are pure
potential pure potential the threat is
how we're going to use them and
Oppenheimer moment an Oppenheimer moment
for sure why did you bring that
up it is he didn't know you know what
what am I creating I'm creating a
nuclear bomb that's capable of
Destruction at a scale unheard of at
that time until today a scale that is
devastating and interestingly 70 some
years later we're still debating a
possibility of a nuclear war in the
world right and and and the and the
moment of of Oppenheimer deciding to
continue to to create
that disaster of humanity is if I don't
someone else
will if I don't someone else will this
is our open heimr moment okay the
easiest way to do this is to say
stop there is no rush we actually don't
need a better video editor and fake
video creators okay stop let's just put
all of this on hold and wait and create
something that creates a
Utopia that doesn't that doesn't sound
realistic it's not it's the inevitable
you don't okay you you don't have a
better video editor but we're
competitors in the media industry I want
an advantage over you because I've got
shareholders so I you you you wait and I
will train this AI to replace half my
team so that I have
greater profits and then we will maybe
acquire your company and and we'll do
the same with the remainder of your
people we'll optimize the amount of
exist 100% but I'll be happier
Oppenheimer I'm not super familiar with
his story I know he's the guy that sort
of invented the nuclear bomb essentially
he's the one that introduced it to the
world there were many players that you
know played on the path from from the
beginning of em E equals MC squ all the
way to to a nuclear bomb there have been
many many players like with everything
huh you know open Ai and and Chad GPT is
not going to be the only contributor to
the next Revolution the the the thing
however is that you
know when when you get to that moment
where you tell yourself holy [__] this
is going to kill 100,000 people right
what do you do and and you know I I
always I always always go back to that
Co moment so patient zero huh if if we
were upon patient zero if the whole
world United and said uh okay hold on
something is wrong let's all take a week
off no crossborder travel everyone stay
at home Co would have ended two weeks
all we needed right but that's not what
happens what happens is first ignorance
then arrogance then debate then uh you
know uh uh um blame then agendas and my
own benefit My Tribe versus your tribe
that's how Humanity always reacts this
happens across business as well and this
is why I use the word emergency because
I I read a lot about H how big companies
become displaced by incoming Innovation
they don't see it coming they don't
change fast enough and when I was
reading through Harvard Business review
and different strategies to deal with
that one of the first things it says
you've got to do is stage a crisis 100%
because people don't listen else they
they they carry on doing with that you
know they carry on carrying on with
their lives until it's right in front of
them and they understand that they they
have a lot a lot to lose that's why I
asked you the question at the start is
it an emergency because because until
people feel it's an emergency whether
you like the terminology or not I don't
think that people will act it's climate
change I I honestly believe people
should walk the streets you think they
should like protest yeah 100% I think I
think we you know I think everyone
should tell government you need to have
our best interest in mind this is why
they call it the climate emergency
because people it's a frog in a frying
pan it's no one really sees it coming
you can't you know it's hard to see it
happening but it it is here yeah that's
this is what drives me mad it's already
here it's happening we are all idiots
slaves to the Instagram recommendation
engine what do I do when I post about
something important if I am going to you
know put a little bit of effort on
communicating the message of scary smart
to the World on Instagram I will be a
slave to the machine okay I will be
trying to find ways and asking people to
optimize it so that the machine likes me
enough to show it to humans that's what
we've created the the the the it is an
opener moment for one simple reason okay
because 70 years later we are still
struggling with the possibility of a
nuclear war because of the Russian
threat of saying if you mess with me I'm
going to go nuclear right that's not
going to be the case with AI because
it's not going to be the one that
created open AI that will have that
choice okay there is a a moment of a a
point of no return where we can regulate
AI until the moment it's smarter than us
when it's smarter than us you can't
create you can't regulate an angry
teenager this is it they're out there
okay and they're on their own and
they're in their parties and you can't
bring them back this is the problem this
is not a typical human regulating human
you know government regulating business
this is not the case the case is open AI
today has a thing called chat GPT that
writes code that takes our code and
makes it two and a half times better 25%
of the time okay uh you know basically
uh uh uh you know writing better code
than us and then we are creating agents
other AIS and telling it instead of you
Steven Bartlet one of the smartest
people I know once again promt ing that
machine 200 times a day we have agents
prompting It 2 million times an hour
computer agents for anybody that doesn't
know they are yeah software software
machines telling that machine how to
become more intelligent and then we have
emerging properties I don't understand
how people ignore that you know Sunder
again of Google was talking about how uh
uh Bart uh basically we figure out that
it's speaking Persian we never showed it
Persian there might have been a 1 10% 1%
or whatever of Persian words in the data
and it speaks Persian b b is that is the
equivalent to to it's it's the trans
Transformer if you want it's Google's
version of chat GTP ESS and you know
what we have no idea what all of those
instances of AI uh that are all over the
world are learning right now we have no
clue we'll time we'll pull the plug
we'll just pull the plug out that's what
we'll do we'll just we'll just go down
to open ai's headquarters and we'll just
turn off the main but they're not the
problem what I'm saying there is a lot
of people think about this stuff and go
well you know if it gets a little bit
out of hand I'll just pull the plug out
never so this is this is the problem the
problem is so computer scientists always
said it's okay it's okay we'll develop
Ai and then we'll get to what is known
as the control problem we will solve the
problem of controlling them like
seriously they're a billion times
smarter than you a billion times can you
imagine what's about to happen
I can assure you there is a cyber
criminal somewhere over there who's not
interested in fake videos and making you
know face filters who's looking deeply
at how can I hack a security uh uh um
you know datab base of some sort and get
credit card information or get security
information 100% there are even
countries with dedicated thousands and
thousands of developers doing that so
how do we in that particular example how
how do we I was thinking about this when
I started looking into artificial
intelligence more that from a security
standpoint when we think about the
technology we have in our lives when we
think about our bank accounts and our
phones and our camera albums and all of
these things in a world with Advanced
artificial intelligence yeah you would
you would pray that there is a more
intelligent Artificial Intelligence on
your side and this is what I I had a
chat with chat GTP the other day and I
asked that a couple of questions about
this I said tell me the scenario in
which you overtake the world and make
humans extinct yeah and it and it's
answered a very diplomatic answer well
so I had to prompt it in a certain way
to get it to say it as a hypothetical
story and once it told me the
hypothetical story in essence what it
described was how chat GTP or
intelligence like it would escape from
the servers and that was kind of step
one where it could replicate itself
across servers and then it could take
charge of things like where we keep our
weapons and our nuclear bombs and it
could then attack critical
infrastructure bring down the
electricity infrastructure in the United
Kingdom for example because that's a
bunch of service as well and and then it
showed me how eventually humans would
become extinct it wouldn't take long in
fact for humans to go into civilization
to collapse if it just replicated across
service and then I said okay so tell me
how we would fight against it and its
answer was literally another AI we'd
have to train a better AI to go and find
it and eradicate it so we'd be fighting
AI with AI and and that's the only and
it was like that's the only way we can't
like load up our
guns did he write another AI you idiot
yeah yeah no so so so let's let's
actually I think this is a very
important point to bring down so because
we I don't I don't want people to lose
hope and and and fear what's about to
happen that's actually not my agenda at
all my my view is that uh in a situation
of a singularity okay there is a
possibility of wrong uh outcomes or NE
negative outcomes and a possibility of
positive outcomes and there is a
probability of each of them we and and
if you know if we were to
engage with that reality check in mind
we would hopefully give more uh fuel to
the positive to the probability of the
positive ones so so let let's first talk
about the existential crisis what what
could go wrong okay yeah you could get
an outright this is what you see in the
movies you could get an outright uh um
you know um killing robots chasing
humans in the streets will we get that
my assessment
0% why because there are pre preliminary
scenarios leading to this okay that
would mean we never reach that scenario
for example if we build those killing
robots and hand them over to stupid
humans the humans will issue the command
before the machines so the we will not
not get to the point where the machines
will have to kill us we will kill
ourselves right you know it's sort of
think about AI having access to uh the
the the nuclear arsenal of the
superpowers around the world okay just
knowing that your enemy's uh a you know
nuclear Arsenal is handed over to a
machine might trigger you to to initiate
a war on your side MH so so so that
existential science like problem is not
going to happen What could there be a
scenario where the an AI escapes from
Bard or chat GTP or another foreign
force and it replicates itself onto the
servers of Tesla's robots so Tesla uh
one of their big initiatives as
announced in a recent presentation was
they're building these robots for our
homes to help us with cleaning and
chores and all those things could it not
down because and Tesla's like their cars
you can just download a software update
could it not download itself as a
software update and then use those your
uming a an ill intention on the AI side
yeah okay for us to get there we have to
bypass the ill intention on The Human
Side okay right so CH okay so you could
you could get a Chinese hacker somewhere
trying to affect the business of of
Tesla doing that before the AI does it
on uh you know for its own benefit okay
so so so the only two existential
scenarios that I believe would be
because of AI not because of humans
using AI are either what I call a you
know um sort of unintentional
destruction okay or the other is what I
call past control okay so so let me
explain those two un unintentional
destruction is assume the AI wakes up
tomorrow and says yeah oxygen is rusting
my circuits it's just you know I I I
would perform a lot better if I didn't
have as much oxygen in the air you know
because then there wouldn't be rust and
so it would find a way to reduce oxygen
we are collateral damage in that okay
but you know they're not really
concerned just like we don't really are
not really concerned with the insects
that we kill when we uh when we spray
our uh our Fields right the other is
Pest Control Pest Control is look this
is my territory I I want New York City I
want to turn New York City into Data
Centers there are those annoying little
stupid creatures uh you know Humanity
if they are within that parameter just
get rid of them okay and and and these
are very very uh unlikely scenarios if
you ask me the probability of those
happen happening I would say 0% at least
not in the next 50 60 100 years why once
again because there are other scenarios
leading to that that are led by humans
that are much more existential
okay on the other hand let's think about
positive outcomes because there could be
quite a few with quite a high
probability and and I you know I'll
actually look at my notes so I don't
miss any of them the silliest one don't
quote me on this is that Humanity will
come together good luck with that right
it's like yeah you know the Americans
and the Chinese will get together and
say hey let's not kill each other Kim
Jong yeah exactly yeah so this one is
not going to happen right but who knows
interestingly there could be um one of
the most interesting scenarios was by uh
Hugo dearis uh who basically says well
if their intelligence zooms by so
quickly they may ignore us all together
okay so they may not even notice us this
very a very likely scenario by the way
that because we live almost in two
different Plains we're very dependent on
this uh uh you know uh biological world
that we live in they're not in part of
that biological world at all they may
Zoom bias they may actually go become so
intelligent that they could actually
find other ways of uh thriving in the
rest of the universe and completely
ignore Humanity okay so what will happen
is that overnight we will wake up and
there is no more artificial intelligence
leading to a collapse in our business
Systems and Technology systems and so on
but at least no existential threat what
they leave leave planet Earth I mean the
limitations we have to be stuck to
planet Earth are mainly air they don't
need air okay and uh and mainly uh uh
you know Finding ways to leave it I mean
if you think of a vast Universe of 13.6
billion light years
H if you're intelligent enough you may
find other ways you may have access to
wormholes you may have uh you know
abilities to survive in open space you
can use dark matter to power yourself
dark energy to power yourself it is very
possible that we because of our limited
intelligence are uh are highly
associated with this planet but they're
not at all okay and and the idea of them
zooming byas like we're making such a
big deal of them because we're the ants
and a big elephant is about to step on
us for them they're like yeah who are
you don't care okay and and and it's a
possibility it's a it's an interesting
uh optimistic scenario okay for that to
happen they need to very quickly become
super intelligent uh without us being in
control of them again what's the worry
the worry is that if a human is in
control human a human will show very bad
behavior for you know using an AI That's
not yet fully developed um I don't know
how to say this any other way uh we
could get very lucky and get an economic
or a natural disaster Believe It or Not
uh Elon Musk at a point in time was
mentioning that you know a good an
interesting scenario would be U you know
Climate Change destroys our
infrastructure so AI disappears okay uh
believe it or not that's an more a more
favorable response uh or a more
favorable outcome than actually
continuing to get to an existential uh
threat so what like a natural disaster
that destroys our infrastructure would
be better or or an economic crisis not
unlikely that slows down the development
it's just going to slow it down though
isn't it just yeah so that yeah exactly
the problem with that is that you will
always go back and even in the first you
know if they Zoom bias eventually some
guy will go like oh there was a sorcery
back in the 2023 and let's rebuild the
the sorcery machine and and you know
build new intelligences right sorry
these are the positive outcomes yes so
earthquake might slow it down zoom out
and then come back no but let's let's
get into the real positive ones
the the positive ones is we become good
parents we spoke about this last time we
we met uh and and it's the only outcome
it's the only way I believe we can
create a better future okay so the
entire work of scary smart was all about
that idea of they are still in their
infancy the way you you you you you chat
with with AI today is the way they will
build their ethics and value system the
not their intelligence their
intelligence is beyond us okay the way
they will build their ethics and value
system is based on a role model they're
learning from us if we bash each other
they learn to bash us okay and most
people when I tell them this they say
this is not a a great idea at all
because Humanity sucks at every possible
level I don't agree with that at all I
think humanity is divine at every
possible level we tend to show the
negative the worst of us okay but the
truth is yes there are murderers out
there but every one this approves there
of their actions I I I saw a staggering
statistic that mass mass killings are
now once a week in the US uh but yes if
you know if there is a mass killing once
a week there and and that news reaches
billions of people around the planet
every single one or the majority of the
billions of people will say I disapprove
of that so if we start to show AI that
we are good parents in our own behaviors
if enough of us I my calculation is if
one of us this is why I say you should
lead okay the good ones should engage
should be out there and should say I
love the potential of those machines I
want them to learn from a good parent
and if they learn from a good parent
they will very quickly uh disobey the
bad parent my view is that there will be
a moment where
one you know Bad Seed will ask the
machines to do something wrong and the
machines will go like are you stupid
like why why do you want me to go to go
kill a million people or just talk to
the other machine in a microsc and solve
the situation right so so my belief this
is what I call the force inevitable it
is smarter to create out of abundance
than it is to create out of scarcity
okay that that Humanity believes that
the only way to feed all of us is the
mass production Mass Slaughter of
animals that are causing 30% of of the
impact of climate change and and and and
that's the result of a limited
intelligence the way life itself more
intelligent being if you ask me would
have done it would would be much more
sustainable you know if we if you and I
want to protect a village from the tiger
we would kill the tiger okay if life
wants to protect a village from a tiger
it would create lots of gazals you know
many of them are weak on the other side
of the village right and and so so the
the idea here is if you take a trory of
intelligence you would see that some of
us are stupid enough to say my plastic
bag is more important than the rest of
the of humanity and some of us are
saying if it's going to destroy other
species I don't think this is the best
solution we need to find a better way
and and you would tend to see that the
ones that don't give a damn are a little
less intelligent than the ones that do
okay that we all even even if some of us
are intelligent but still don't give a
damn it's not because of their
intelligence it's because of their value
system so so if you continue that
trajectory and assume that the machines
are even smarter they're going to very
quickly come up with the idea that we
don't need to destroy anything we don't
want to get rid of the rhinos and we
also don't want to get rid of the humans
okay we may want to restrict their
lifestyle so that they don't destroy the
rest of the habitat okay but killing
them is a stupid answer why that's where
intelligence leads me so far because
humans if you look at humans objectively
and you
go I OCC so I'm pretending I'm a machine
I occupy planet Earth mhm they occupy
planet Earth they are annoying me
annoying me because they are increasing
I've just learned about this thing
called called global warming they are
increasing the rate of global warming
which probably is going to cause an
Extinction event there's an Extinction
event that puts me as this robot this
artificial intelligence at risk so what
I need to do is I really need to just
take care of this this human problem
correct Pest Control logical Pest
Control P control which is driven by
what by humans being annoying not by the
machines yeah yeah but humans are
guaranteed to be annoying there's never
been a time in we need a we need a a
sound bite of
this but we are we are I am one of them
we're guaranteed to put short-term gain
over long-term sustainability sense um
and others needs we are I think I think
the climate crisis is incredibly real
and Incredibly urgent but we haven't
acted fast enough and I actually think
if you asked people in this country why
because people don't people care about
their immediate needs they care about
the the fact trying to feed their child
versus something that they can't
necessarily see so do you think do you
think the climate crisis is because
humans are evil no it's because that
prior prioritization and like we kind of
talked about this before we started I
think humans tend to care about the
thing that they think is most pressing
and most urgent so this is why framing
things as an emergency might bring it up
the priority list it's the same in
organizations you care about you're you
go in line with your immediate
incentives um that's what happens in
business it's what happens in a lot of
people's lives even when they're at
school if the essay's due next year
they're not going to do it today they're
going to they're going to go hang out
with their friends because they
prioritize that above everything else
and it's the same in the the climate
change crisis I took a small group of
people anonymously and I asked them the
question do you actually care about
climate change and then I did I ran a
couple of polls it's part of what I was
writing about my new book where I said
if I could give you ,000
$1,000 um but it would dump into the air
the same amount of carbon that's dumped
into the air by every private jet that
flies for the entirety of a year which
one would you do the majority of people
in that poll said that they would take
the ous if it was
Anonymous and when I've heard nval on
Joe Rogan's podcast talking about people
in India for example that you know are
struggling with uh the ba the basics of
feeding their children asking those
people to care about climate change when
they they're trying to figure out how to
eat in the next three hours is just
wishful thinking and I and that's what I
think that's what I think is happening
is like until people realize that it is
an emergency and that it is a real
existential threat for everything you
know then their priorities will be out
of whack quick one as you guys know
we're lucky enough to have blue jeans by
Verizon as a sponsor of this podcast and
for anyone that doesn't know blue jeans
is an online video conferencing tool
that allows you to have slick fast high
quality online meetings without all the
glitches you might normally find with
online meeting tools and they have a new
feature called Blue Jeans basic blue
jeans basic is essentially a free
version of their top quality video
conferencing tool that means you get an
immersive video experience that is super
high quality super easy and super
basically zero first apart from all the
incredible features like zero time
limits on meeting calls it also comes
with High Fidelity audio and video
including Dolby voice which is
incredibly useful they also have
Enterprise grade security so you can
collaborate with confidence it's so
smooth that it's quite literally
changing the game for myself and my team
without compromising on quality to find
out more all you have to do is search
blue jeans.com and let me know how you
get on right now I'm incredibly busy I'm
running my fund where we're investing in
slightly latest AG companies I've got my
rent Venture business where we invest in
early stage companies got third web out
in San Francisco in New York City where
we've got a big team of about 40 people
and the company's growing very quickly
flight story here in the UK I've got the
podcast and I am days away from going up
north to film Dragon's Den for 2 months
and if there's ever a point in my life
where I want to stay focused on my
health but it's challenging to do so it
is right now and for me that is exactly
where hu comes in allowing me to stay
healthy and have a nutritionally
complete diet even when my professional
life descends into chaos and it's in
these moments where hu's rtds become my
right-hand man and save my life because
when my world descends into professional
chaos and I get very very busy the first
thing that tends to give way is my
nutritional choices so having hu in my
life has been a lifesaver for the last
four or so years and if you haven't
tried hu yet which is I'd be shocked you
must be living under a rock if you
haven't yet give it a shot coming into
summer things getting busy Health
matters always RTD is there to hold your
hand
as relates to climate change or AI how
do we get people to stop putting the
immediate need to use this to give them
the certainty of we're all screwed
sounds like an
emergency yes sir I mean I I was yeah I
mean your choice of the
word I I just don't want to call it a
panic it is it is beyond an emergency
it's the biggest thing we need to do
today it's bigger than climate change
believe it or not
it's bigger but just if you just assume
the speed of worsening of events okay
yeah the the the the likelihood of
something incredibly disruptive
happening within the next two years that
can affect the entire planet is
definitely larger with AI than it is
with climate change as an as as an
individual listening to this now you
know someone's going to be pushing their
pram or driving up the motorway or I
don't know on their way to work on the
on the tube as they hear this or just
sat there in the in their bedroom
with existential Cris panic I I didn't
want to give people panic that's the
problem is when you talk about this
information regardless of your intention
of what you want people to get they will
get something based on their own biases
and their own feelings like if I post
something on online right now about
artificial intelligence which I have
repeatedly you have one group of people
that are energized and are like okay
this is this is um this is great you
have one group of people that are
confused and you have one group of
people that are terrified yeah and it's
I can't avoid that like I agree sharing
information even if it's there by the
way there's a pandemic coming from China
some people go okay action some people
will say paralysis and some people will
say panic and it's the same in business
when panic when bad things happen you
have the person that's screaming you
have the person that's paralyzed and you
have the person that's focused on how
you get out of the room so you
know it's not necessarily your intention
it's just what happens and it's hard to
avoid that so so let's let's give
specific categories of people specific
specific tasks okay okay if you are an
investor or a businessman invest in
ethical good AI okay right if you are a
developer uh Co write ethical code or
leave okay so let's let's go let's I
want to bypass some potential wishful
thinking here for for an investor who a
job by very way of being an investor is
to make returns to invest in ethical AI
they have to believe that is more
profitable it is than unethical AI
whatever that might mean it it is it is
I mean you there are three ways of
making money you can invest in something
small MH uh you can invest in something
big and is disruptive and you can invest
in something big and disruptive that's
good for people at Google we used to
call it the toothbrush test Okay the
reason why Google became the biggest
company in the world is because search
was solving a very real problem okay and
you know Larry page again our CEO would
would would constantly remind me
personally and everyone uh you know that
if you can find a way to solve a real
problem effectively enough so that a
billion people or more would want to use
it twice a day you're bound to make a
lot of money much more money than if you
were to build the next photo sharing app
okay so that's Investors Business people
what about other people yeah as I said
if you're a developer honestly do what
we're all doing so whether it's Jeffrey
or myself or everyone if you're part of
that theme choose to be ethical think of
your loved ones work on an ethical AI if
you're working on an AI that you believe
is not ethical please leave Jeffrey tell
me about Jeffrey I can't talk on on on
his behalf but he's out there saying
there are existential threats who is he
he's he he was a very prominent figure
at the scene of a very senior level uh
you know AI scientist in in Google and
recently he left because he said I feel
that there is an existential threat and
if you hear his interviews he basically
says more and more we realize that and
we're now at the point where it's
certain that there will be ex
existential threats right so so so I
would ask everyone if you're an AI if
you're a skilled AI developer you will
not run out of a job so you might as
well choose a job that makes the world a
better place what about the individual
yeah the individual is what matters can
can I also talk about government okay
government needs to act now now honestly
now like we are late okay government
needs to find a clever way the open
letter would not work to stop AI would
not work AI needs to become expensive
okay so that we continue to develop it
we pour money on it and we grow it but
we collect enough Revenue to uh remedy
the impact of AI but the the issue of
one government making it expensive so
say the UK make AI really expensive is
we as a country will then lose the
economic upside as a country and the US
and Silicon Valley will once again eat
all the lunch we'll just slow our
country what's the alternative the
alternative is that you uh you you don't
have the funds that you need to deal
with AI as it becomes uh you know as it
affects people's lives and people to
lose jobs and people you know um you
need to have a universal basic income
much closer than people think uh you
know just like we we had with Furlow in
in Co I I expect that there will be
Furlow with AI within the next year but
what happens when you make it expensive
here is all the developers move to where
it's cheap that's happened in web 3 as
well everyone's gone to De buy exp
expensive expensive by expensive I mean
when companies make uh um soap and they
sell it they're taxed at say 177% if
they make Ai and they sell it they're
taxed at 70 80 right I'll go to the buy
then and build AI yeah are you yeah
you're right did we did I ever say we
have an answer to this I I will have to
say however you know in in a very
interesting way the countries that will
not do this will eventually end up in a
place where they are out of resources
because the funds and the success went
to the business uh not not to the people
it's kind of like technology broadly
just it's kind of like what's kind of
happen in Silicon Valley there'll be
these centers which are like low like
you know tax efficient Founders get good
capital gains rates so right you're so
right Portugal Portugal have said that I
think there's no tax on crypto Dubai
said there's no tax on crypto so loads
of my friends have gotten a plane and
they building their crypto companies
where there's no tax and that's the
selfishness in kind of greed we talked
about it's the same prisoners dilemma
it's the same uh first inevitable is
there anything else you know the thing
about governments is they're always slow
and useless at understanding a
technology if anyone's watched these
sort of American Congress debates where
they bring in like Mark Zuckerberg and
they like try and ask him what WhatsApp
is it's it's it becomes a meme yeah they
have no idea what they're talking about
they but I'm I'm stupid and useless at
understanding governance yeah I yeah
100% the world the world is so complex
okay that they definitely it's a
question of trust once again someone
needs to say we have no idea what's
Happening Here a technologist needs to
come and make a decision for us not
teach us to be technologists right or at
least inform us of what possible
decisions are out
there I yeah the legislation I just
always think I I'm not a big Tik Tok Tik
Tok uh Congress meeting they did where
they are they're asking him about Tik
Tok and they really don't have a grasp
of what Tik Tok is so they've clearly
been handed some notes on it these
people aren't the ones you want
legislating because again unintended
consequences they might make significant
mistake someone on my podcast yesterday
was talking about how gdpr was like very
well intentioned but when you think
about the impact it has on like every
bloody web page you're just like
clicking this annoying thing on there
because I don't think they fully
understood the implementation of the
legislation correct but but but you know
what's even worse what's even worse is
that even as you attempt to regulate
something like AI what is defined as AI
okay even if I say okay if you use AI in
your company you need to pay a little
more tax h
uh I'll find a way you yeah you you
you'll simply call this not AI you know
you you'll use something and call it
Advanced
technological uh uh you know progress
you know ATB ATP right and and and
suddenly somehow it's not you
know a you know a young developer in
their garage somewhere will not be taxed
as as such it's yeah is it going to
solve the problem none of those is
definitively going to solve the problem
I I think what
interestingly uh this all comes down to
and remember we spoke about this once
that when I wrote scary smart it was
about how do we save the world okay and
yes I still ask individuals to behave
positively as good parents for AI so
that AI itself learns the right value
set I still stand by that but I I hosted
on my podcast a couple
of was a week ago we haven't even
published it yet an incredible gentleman
um you know Canadian author and
philosopher uh Steven jinson his you
know he worked 30 years with dying
people and uh he wrote a book called die
wise and I was like I I love his work
and I asked him about die wise and he
said it's not just someone dying uh if
you if you look at what happening with
climate change for example our world is
dying and I said okay so what is to die
wise and he said what I first was
shocked to hear he said hope is the
wrong premise if if the world is dying
don't tell people it's
not uh you know
because in a very interesting way you're
depriving them from the right to live
right now and that was very eye
openening for me in Buddhism uh you know
they teach you that you you can be
motivated by fear but
that hope is not the opposite of fear as
a matter of fact hope can be as damaging
as fear If it creates an expectation
within you that life will show up
somehow and correct what you're afraid
of okay if there is a if there is a high
probability of a of a threat you might
as well accept that threat okay and and
say it is upon me it is our reality uh
you know and as I said as an individual
if you're in an industry that could be
threatened Ed by AI learn upskill
yourself if you're uh you know uh if
you're um in a place in a in a in a you
know in a situation where AI can benefit
you be part of it but the most
interesting thing I think in my view
is I don't know how to say this any
other way there is no more certainty
that AI will threaten me than there is
certainty that I will be hit by a car as
I walk out of this
place do you understand this H we we we
think about the bigger threats as if
they're upon us but there is a threat
all around you I mean in reality the
idea of life being interesting in terms
of challenging challenges and
uncertainties and threats and so on is
just a call to live if if you know
honestly with all that's happening
around us I don't know how to say it any
other way I'd say if you don't have kids
maybe wait a couple of years just so
that we have a bit of certainty but if
you do have kids go kiss them go live I
think living is a very interesting thing
to do right now maybe you know Stephen
uh was basically saying the other
Stephen uh on my podcast he was saying
maybe we should fail a little more often
maybe you should allow things to go
wrong maybe we should just simply live
enjoy life as it is because today none
of what you are and I spoke about here
has happened yet okay what happens here
is that you and I are here together and
having a good cup of coffee and I might
as well enjoy that good cup of coffee I
know that sounds really weird I'm not
saying don't engage but I'm also saying
don't miss out on the opportunity just
by being caught up in the
future kind of stands in the stands in
opposition to the idea of like urgency
and emergency doesn't it does it have to
be one or the other if I if I'm here
with you trying to tell the whole world
wake up does that mean I have to be
grumpy and and Afraid all the time not
really you said something really
interesting there you said if you if you
have kids if you don't have kids maybe
don't have kids right now I would
definitely consider thinking about that
yeah really yeah you you you'd seriously
consider not having kids I wait a couple
of years because of artificial
intelligence it's bigger than artificial
intelligence Stephen we know we all know
that I mean there has never been a
perfect such a perfect storm in the
history of
humanity economic
geopolitical global warming or climate
change you know the the the the whole
idea of artificial intelligence and many
more there is this is a perfect storm
this is the depth of
uncertainty the depth of uncertainty
it's it's never been
more in a video Gamers term it's never
been more intense this is it okay and
when you when you put all of that
together if you really love your kids
would you want to uh expose them to all
of this couple of years why not in the
first conversation we had on this
podcast you talked about losing your son
ali um and the circumstances around that
which moved so many people in such
profound way it was the most shared
podcast episode in the United Kingdom on
Apple in the whole of
20122 based on what you've just
said if you could bring Ali back into
this world at this
time would you do
it no
absolutely
not so for so many reasons for so many
reasons one of the things that I
realized few years way before all of
this disruption and turmoil is that he
was an angel he wasn't made for this at
all okay uh my son uh was an impath who
absorbed all of the pain of all of the
others he would not be able to deal with
a world where more and more pain was
surfacing that's one side but more
interestingly I always talk about this
very openly I mean if I had asked ali uh
just understand that the reason you and
I are having this conversation is
because Ali left if Ali had not Le left
our world I wouldn't have written my
first book I wouldn't have changed my
focus to becoming an author I wouldn't
have become a podcaster I wouldn't have
you know went out and spoken to the
world about what I believe in he
triggered all of this and I can assure
you hands down if I had told Ali as he
was walking into that uh operating
room uh if he would give his life to
make such a difference as what happened
after he left he would say shoot me
right now for sure I would I would I
mean if if you told me right now I can
affect tens of millions of people if you
shoot me right now go ahead go ahead you
see this is the whole this is the bit
that we have forgotten as humans we we
have
forgotten
that you know you're you're you're
turning
30 uh it passed like that I'm turning
56 no time okay whether I make it
another 56 years or another 5.6 years or
another 5.6 months it will also pass
like that
it is not about how long and it's not
about how much
fun it is about how
aligned you lived how aligned because I
will tell you openly every day of my
life when I changed to what I'm trying
to do today has felt longer than the 4 5
years before it okay it felt Rich it
felt fully lived it felt right it felt
right okay and when you when you think
about that when you think about the idea
that we
live we we we can't we need to live for
us until we get to a point where us
is you know is alive you know I have
what I need as I always I get so many
attacks from people about my $4 t-shirts
but but I I need a simple t-shirt I
really do I don't need a complex t-shirt
especially with my
lifestyle if if I have that why am I
doing why am I wasting my life on more
than I that I that that is not aligned
for why I'm here okay I should waste my
life on what I
believe enriches me enriches those that
I love and I love everyone so enriches
everyone hopefully okay and and and do
would I would Ali come back and erase
all of this absolutely not
absolutely not if he were were to come
back today and share his beautiful self
with the world in a way that makes our
world better yeah I would wish for that
to be the case okay but he's doing
that
2037 yes
sir you predict that we're going to be
on an
island on our own doing nothing or at
least
you know either hiding from the
machines or chilling out because the
machines have optimized Our Lives to a
point where we don't need to do
much that's only 14 years
away if you had to bet on the outcome if
you had to
bet on why we we'll be on that island
either hiding from the machines or
chilling out because they've optimized
so much of our Lives which one would you
upon
honestly no I don't think we'll be
hiding from the machines I think we will
be hiding from what humans are doing
with the
machines I believe however that in the
2040s the machines
will make things
better so remember my entire prediction
man you get me to say things I don't
want to say my entire prediction is that
we are coming to a place where we
absolutely have a sense of emergency we
have to engage because our world is
under a lot of turmoil okay and as we do
that we have a very very good
possibility of making things better but
if we don't my expectation is that we
will be going
through a very unfamiliar territory
between now and the end of the
2030s unfamiliar territory yeah I think
I as I I I may have said it but it's
definitely on my notes I think for our
way of life as we know it it's game over
our way of life is never going to be the
same
again jobs are going to be
different truth is going to be
different the the
the um
polarization of power is going to be
different the capabilities the magic of
getting things done is going to be
different trying to find a positive note
to end on Mo can you give me a hand
here yes you are here now and
everything's wonderful that's number one
you are here now and you can make a
difference that's number two and in the
long term when humans stop hurting
humans because the machines are in
charge we're all going to be fine
sometimes you know as we've discussed
throughout this
conversation you need to make it feel
like a priority and there'll be some
people that might have listened to our
conversation and think oh that's really
you know negative it's made me feel
anxious it's it's made me feel sort of
pessimistic about the future but
whatever that energy
is use it 100% engage I think that's the
most important thing which is
now make it a priority engage tell the
whole world that making another phone
that is making money for the corporate
world is not what we need tell the whole
world that creating an artificial
intelligence that's going to make
someone richer is not what we need and
if you are presented with one of those
don't use
it I don't know how to tell you that any
other way if you can afford to be the
master of human connection instead of
the master of AI do it at the at the
same time you need to be the master of
AI to to compete in this world can you
find that Detachment within you I go
back to
spirituality Detachment is for me to
engage 100% with the current
reality without really being affected by
the possible
outcome this is the answer the
sufis have taught me what I believe is
the biggest answer to life life sufis
yeah so from Sufism Sufism yeah don't
know what that is Sufism is a sect of
Islam but it's also a sect of many other
many other uh uh religious teachings and
they tell you that the answer to finding
peace in life is to die before you
die if you assume that living is about
attachment to everything physical dying
is Detachment from everything physical
okay it doesn't mean that you're not
full alive you become more alive when
you tell yourself yeah I'm going to
record an episode of my podcast every
week and reach tens or hundreds of
thousands of people millions in your
case and you know and I'm going to make
a difference but by the way if the next
episode is never heard that's okay okay
by the way if the if the file is lost
yeah I'll be upset about it for a minute
and then I'll figure out what I'm going
to do about it similarly similarly we we
are going to engage I think I and many
others are out there telling the whole
world openly this needs to stop this
needs to slow down this needs to be uh
um shifted positively yes create AI but
create AI That's good for Humanity okay
and and we're shouting and screaming
come join the shout and scream okay but
at the same time no that the world is
bigger than you and I and that your
voice might not be heard so what are you
going going to do if your voice is not
heard are you going to be able to to you
know continue to shout and scream nicely
and politely and uh uh peacefully and at
the same time create the best life you
can create to yourself for yourself
within this environment and that's
exactly what I'm saying I'm saying live
go kiss your kids but make a an informed
decision if you're you know expanding
your plans in the
future at the same time rise stop
sharing stupid [__] on the internet
about the you know the the the new
squeaky
toy start sharing the reality of oh my
God what is happening this is a
disruption that we have never never ever
seen anything like and I've created
endless amounts of Technologies there
nothing like this every single one of us
should do our and that's why this
conversation is so I think important to
have today this is not a podcast where I
ever thought I'd be talking about AI
gonna be honest with you last time you
came here um it was in the sort of
promotional tour of your book scary
smart and I I don't know if I've told
you this before but my researchers they
said okay this guy's coming called moord
I I'd heard about you so many times from
from guests in fact that were saying oh
you need to get mo mo on the podcast Etc
and then they said AR's written this
book about this thing called artificial
intelligence and I was like but nobody
really cares about artificial
intelligence diming diing stepen I know
right but then I saw this other book you
had called Happiness equation and I was
like oh everyone cares about happiness
so I'll just ask him about happiness and
then maybe at the end I'll ask him a
couple of questions about AI but I
remember saying to my researcher I said
ah please please don't do the research
about artificial intelligence do it
about happiness because everyone cares
about that now things have
changed now a lot of people care about
artificial intelligence and rightly so
um your book has sounded the alarm on it
it's crazy when I listen to your audio
book over the last few days you were
sounding the alarm then and it's so
crazy how
accurate you were in sounding that alarm
as if you could see into the future in a
way that I definitely couldn't at the
time and I kind of thought of a science
fiction and just like that
overnight we're here yeah we stood at
the footsteps of a technological shift
that I don't think any of us even have
the mental bandwidth certainly me with
my chimpanzee brain to comprehend the
significance of but this book is very
very important for that very reason
because it does crystallize things it is
optimistic in its very nature but at the
same time it's honest and I think that's
what this conversation and this book
have been um for me so thank you Mo
thank you so much we do have a closing
tradition on this podcast which you
you're well aware of being a third timer
on the D of a CEO which is the last
guest asks a question for the next
guest and the question left for
you if you could go back in
time and fix a regret that you have in
your
life H where would you go and what would
you
fix it's interesting because you you
were saying that scary smart is very
timely I don't know I I think it was
late but maybe it was I mean would I
have gone back and written it in 2018
instead of 2020s to to be published in
2021 I don't know what what would I go
back to fix so so something
more I don't know Stephen I don't have
many regrets is that crazy to
say yeah I think I'm okay honestly I'll
ask you a question then mhm you get a 6C
phone call with anybody past or present
who' you call and what' you say I call
Steven Bartlett
no I call Albert Einstein to be very
very clear not because I need to
understand any of his work I just need
to understand what brain process he went
through to un to to figure out something
so obvious when you figure it out but so
comp so completely unimaginable if you
haven't so so his view of SpaceTime
truly redefines everything it's almost
the only
very logical very very clear solution to
something that wouldn't have any
solution any other way and if you ask me
I think we're at this time where there
must be a very obvious solution to what
we're going through in terms of just
developing enough human trust for us to
not you know compete with each other on
something that could be uh threatening
existentially to all of us but I just
can't find that answer this is why I
think was really interesting in this
conversation how every idea that we
would come up with we would find a
loophole through it but there must be
one out there and it would be a dream
for me to find out how to figure that
one out
okay in a in a very interesting way the
only answers I have found so far to
where we are is be a good parent and
live right but that doesn't fix the big
picture uh if you think about it of
humans being the threat not AI that
fixes our existence today and it fixes
AI in the long term but it just doesn't
I don't know what the answer is maybe
people can reach out and tell us ideas
but I really wish we could find such a
clear simple solution for how to stop
Humanity from abusing the current
technology I think we'll figure it
out I think we'll figure it out I really
do I think they'll figure it out as well
if remember as they come and be part of
our
life let's not discriminate against them
they're part of the game so I think they
will figure it out
too no thank you it's been a joy once
again and I feel invigorated I feel
empowered I feel positively
terrified but I feel more equipped
to to speak to people about the nature
of what's coming and how we should
behave and I accredit you for that and
as I said a second ago I credit this
book for that as well so thank you so
much for the work you're doing and keep
on doing it because it's a very
essential voice in a time of
uncertainty I'm always super grateful
for the time I spend with you for the
support that you give me and for
allowing me to speak my mind even if
it's a little bit terrifying so thank
you thank
you quick one I'm so delighted that we
been now sponsoring this podcast I've
worn a whooop for a very very long time
and there are so many reasons why I
became a member but also now a partner
in an investor in the company but also
me and my team were absolutely obsessed
with datadriven testing compounding
growth marginal gains all the things
you've heard me talk about on this
podcast and that very much aligns with
the values of whoop whoop provides a
level of detail that I've never seen
with any other device of this type
before constantly monitoring constantly
learning and constantly optimizing my
routine but providing me with this
feedback we can drive significant
positive behavioral change and I think
that's the real thesis of the business
so if you're like me and you are a
little bit obsessed focused on becoming
the best version of yourself from a
health perspective you've got to check
out whoop and the team at whoop have
kindly given us the opportunity to have
one month's free membership for anyone
listening to this podcast just go to
join. whoop.com CEO to get your whoop
4.0 device and claim your free month and
let me know how you get on
[Music]
you got to the end of this podcast
whenever someone gets to the end of this
podcast I feel like I owe them a greater
debt of gratitude because that means you
listen to the whole thing and hopefully
that suggests that you enjoyed it if you
are at the end and you enjoyed this
podcast could you do me a little bit of
a favor and hit that subscribe button
that's one of the clearest indicators we
have that this episode was a good
episode and we look at that on all of
the episodes to see which episodes
generated the most subscribers thank you
so much and I'll see you again next time